# How to use config files

You can edit the files from this folder to change the settings of the game.
Some basic information are already present directly in each file to help you.
This hereby document give further information regarding technical consideration or side effects.


## DISPLAY SETTINGS
_file : display_settings.ini_
In this file you can adapt the display to your needs (resolution, fullscreen, rendering method ...)
The different parameters and values are explained bellow._

**Note :** Any invalid value for a parameter will be ignored.

### Window

#### fullscreen
Switch between fullscreen or windowed mode.
_possible values :_ true / false

#### resizable
_Only when in windowed mode._
Allows the windows to be resized or not. The window is resizable but the format will always be forced to 16:9.
_possible values :_ true / false

#### resolution_auto
Allow the system to detect the resolution of the screen and use it for the game.
**Warning :** It may behave unexpectedly if your are using two two or more monitors in the same time as it will use the total resolution of all the monitors. If this problem occurs, set this value to false and use a custom resolution (custom_window_heigh) matching the resolution of your monitor.
_possible values :_ true / false

#### custom_window_height
_Only when resolution auto is set to false._
Allows you to set the resolution of the game window. The format is forced to 16:9.
You can use any resolution but the asset have a maximum resolution of 1920x1080. On higher resolution they will be extrapolated and less beautiful.
**Warning :** Make sure that the value is lower than the maximum resolution supported by your monitor.
_common values :_ 1080 / 720 (corresponding to : 1080p full HD and 720p HD)

#### enable_windows_ten_upscaling
Windows 10 has a feature which force some application to be rendered at 150% there resolution when running on some devices (laptop, TV screen ...) so that the text and elements are bigger and easier to read or interact with. Unfortunately, when this happens to this game, most of the content will be displayed outside of the monitor. The solution is then to disable this Windows 10 behavior for this specific application. To do so you have to set the value to 'false'. This modification only impacts the game and not your OS.
_possible values :_ true / false


### Performance

#### enable_hardware_accelerated
Allow the system to use the GPU to render the game. It may bring better performance.
**Warning :** In some case it may bring unexpted behaviors (artefacts, crash ...)
_possible values :_ true / false

#### enable_double_buffer
_Only when hardware accelerated is enable._
Allow the game to store one image in buffer while it generate a second one (in order to enhance performance). Set the value to false if you have a very low graphical memory.
_possible values :_ true / false

#### max_fps
Limit the maximum number of frame per second generated by the system (in order to reduce stress on the system and limit latency). The resulting number of frame displayed by second will be limitated by the performance of the monitor. A common value is 60fps or 50fps. Some blinking start to be noticeable under 30fps.
_common values :_ 60 / 50 / 30



## GAME SETTINGS
_file : game_settings.ini_
In this file you can change :
* The language
* The players
* The display of the UI
_The different parameters and values are explained bellow._

**Note :** Any invalid value for a parameter will be ignored.


### Game Language


#### letters_language
Set the the language of the Scrabble letters being used and the corresponding score.
_possible values :_ french / english

**Note :**
If you want to  :
* change the amount of letters
* change the points for a given letter
* add letter for another language
You must edit the file '/sources/letters_and_points.py' 


#### ui_language
Set the the language of the user interface.
_possible values :_ french / english

**Note :**
If you want to :
* Customize the text of the UI
* Add a new language
You must edit the file '/config/ui_content.ini' 

### Players names

# valid player names : Hélène Jonh_Who Tom4 nomorethan16char

#### players_names
Player names can contain accents, upper case, numbers and underscore.
To edit the file simply separate players by a blank space.
**Maximum number of players :** 6 (to stay in the limit of the UI)
**Maximum length for a name :** 16 characters 
_possible values :_ Hélène Jonh_Who Tom4 nomorethan16char


### Advanced options

#### display_next_player_hand
Display on the user interface the hand of the next player so that two human players can play on the same screen at the same time (do not have to wait their turn to search possible words).
_possible values :_ true / false

#### number_of_letters_per_hand
Define the number of letters each player possess.
_possibles values :_ 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9



## USER INTERFACE CONTENT FOR DIFFERENT LANGUAGES 

_file : display_settings.ini_

This file defines the text content to be displayed on the user interface. For now, only english and french are implemented.
In this file each parameter recieved a value in english and a value in french.

Rules to respect to edit the file :
* The different value come always in the same specific specific order.
* Values in different language are separated by the symbol '/'.
* Each element which will then be replaced by a value in the UI is written like <THIS> _(these elements are not mandatory)._

_The begining and trailling blank spaces of each text value will be dismissed when displayed on the UI._

To add a new language, you need to :
* Add the value for this language for each parameter by respecting the formatting rules and not changing the existing order. For instance :
	current_player_turn = <CURRENT_PLAYER>'s turn / Tour de <CURRENT_PLAYER> / <CURRENT_PLAYER>s tur
* In the file '/config/game_settings.ini' change the value of 'ui_language' to the value of the added language. For instance :
	ui_language = svenska
* Edit the file 'sources/main.py' like this :
	#User interface language
	if UI_LANGUAGE == 'english' :
		language_id = 0
	elif UI_LANGUAGE == 'french' :
		language_id = 1
	elif UI_LANGUAGE == 'svenska' :
		language_id = 2
	else :
		language_id = 0
_This language_id  tells the system wich value to take for each parameters. This language_id respects the order given in the 'ui_content.ini' file_
